[Client Mods]/README.md, before:

# Client Mods

These are a small collection of PASS Time specific modifications clients can do to their game that they can use in pugs/tournaments.

## Removing the PASS Time Power Meter from your HUD

![PASS Time Power Meter Example](https://i.imgur.com/LbQj0Ur.jpeg)

This hud element is really intrusive, but luckily for us, we can remove it.

If you have a custom HUD, go to your `custom` folder and open the HUD folder. Then go to `resource/ui/` and look for a file named `hudpasstimeballstatus.res`. If the file exists, [click here](#custom-hud--file-exists-removing-power-meter).

If you are using the default HUD or a custom HUD that does not have the file, simply download the [pt-hudmod](https://github.com/blakeplusplus/p4sstime/raw/main/%5BClient%20Mods%5D/pt-hudmod.7z) archive and put the folder inside into `YOUR_STEAM_LIBRARY\steamapps\common\Team Fortress 2\tf\custom\`.

## Removing or Modifying PASS Time HUD Labels

Sometimes the PASS Time HUD text for events can be intrusive or even useless (for example, +CRIT does not apply to 4v4 PASS Time). Thankfully, we can also modify these elements (although it's a bit more difficult than removing the power meter).
![PASS Time Event Hud Text Example](https://i.imgur.com/c9YAXXG.png)
If you have a custom HUD, go to your `custom` folder and open the HUD folder. Then go to `resource/ui/` and look for a file named `hudpasstimeballstatus.res`. If the file exists, [click here](#custom-hud--file-exists-changing-labels).

Otherwise, [click here](#custom-hud--file-not-found-or-default-hud-changing-labels).

## Custom PASS Time Reticles

Not a fan of the default PASS Time JACK reticle?
![PASS Time JACK Reticle Example](https://i.imgur.com/sWvgo0R.png)
As long as you're in a server with sv_pure set to 0, you can use these. Otherwise, it'll just go back to the default crosshair.

Simply place one of the folders inside the [passtime-crosshairs](https://github.com/blakeplusplus/p4sstime/raw/main/%5BClient%20Mods%5D/passtime-crosshairs.7z) archive into your `custom` folder.

The crosshairs are originally created by slamborghini and can be found in the Official 4v4 PASS Time Discord. I just wanted to archive them in another place.

## Bonus Mods

Here are some neat JACK & JACK trail replacement mods available on Gamebanana.

- [Basketball](https://gamebanana.com/mods/205828)
- [Too Many Balls](https://gamebanana.com/mods/491558) (includes Metroid balls, Mario balls, ANIMATED plasma ball, pool balls, rubber band ball)
- [PASS Time Ball Pack](https://gamebanana.com/mods/491646) (includes ULTRAKILL skulls, Halo 2 Oddball skull, and a festive jack)
- [Australium PASS Time JACK](https://gamebanana.com/mods/491682)
- [PASS Time Trail Pack](https://gamebanana.com/mods/11843)

Using [this mod preloader](https://gamebanana.com/wips/79779) allows them to work in servers that use `sv_pure 1`, like Valve servers or competitive games.

If you want to practice on a local server, you may note loading the map locally results in an annoying "Waiting for Players" message that takes 20 seconds to go away before the actual game can start and the ball can spawn. While you could manually enter `mp_waitingforplayers_cancel 1` every time, you could instead download the [Disable "Waiting For Players" Message](https://gamebanana.com/mods/448996) mod, making the game instantly start!

And an [Invisible Hands](https://gamebanana.com/mods/467431) mod which quite a few PASS Time players enjoy, since the JACK uses an All Class animation resulting in clipping issues with viewmodels.

# END OF FILE
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### Custom HUD & File Exists (Removing Power Meter)

Go to your `custom` folder and open the HUD folder. Then go to `resource/ui/` and open up `hudpasstimeballstatus.res`. CTRL + F for `BallPowerCluster`.

Should look something like this:
```
"BallPowerCluster"
    {
        "ControlName"                                "EditablePanel"
        "fieldName"                                    "BallPowerCluster"
        "xpos"                                        "0"
        "ypos"                                        "0"
        "zpos"                                        "5"
        "wide"                                        "f0"
        "tall"                                        "f0"
        "visible"                                    "1"
        "enabled"                                    "1"

        ...
```
Change the `tall` value from `f0` to `0`.
Click save and now you can run `hud_reloadscheme` in console (if that doesn't work just restart your game). The meter should now be removed!

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### Custom HUD & File Exists (Changing Labels)

Open up the `hudpasstimeballstatus.res` file and CTRL + F for the text you want. As shown in the example before, the +CRIT message is `EventBonusLabel`, the event name (RED SCORE) is `EventTitleLabel`, and the person who caused the event is `EventDetailLabel`.

To remove, for any `Event____Label`:\
Change the `tall` value to `0`.

If you wish to change the positioning of any elements, [use this reference document](https://github.com/rbjaxter/budhud/wiki/Element-Positioning).\
If you wish to change the font to a different one, [follow this guide](#change-the-font-for-pass-time-hud-labels-changing-labels).\
If you wish to add a totally new font that isn't installed in your HUD, [follow this guide](https://github.com/rbjaxter/budhud/wiki/Adding---Replacing-Custom-Fonts#guide).

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### Custom HUD & File Not Found OR Default HUD (Changing Labels)

Download the [pt-hudmod](https://github.com/blakeplusplus/p4sstime/raw/main/%5BClient%20Mods%5D/pt-hudmod.7z) archive and put the folder inside into `YOUR_STEAM_LIBRARY\steamapps\common\Team Fortress 2\tf\custom\`. Open up the `hudpasstimeballstatus.res` file and CTRL + F for the text you want. As shown in the example before, the +CRIT message is `EventBonusLabel`, the event name (RED SCORE) is `EventTitleLabel`, and the person who caused the event is `EventDetailLabel`.

To remove, for any `Event____Label`:\
Change the `tall` value to `0`.

If you wish to change the positioning of any elements, [use this reference document](https://github.com/rbjaxter/budhud/wiki/Element-Positioning).\
If you wish to change the font to a different one, [follow this guide](#change-the-font-for-pass-time-hud-labels-changing-labels).\
If you wish to add a totally new font that isn't installed in your HUD, [follow this guide](https://github.com/rbjaxter/budhud/wiki/Adding---Replacing-Custom-Fonts#guide).

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### Change the Font for PASS Time HUD Labels (Changing Labels)

Only follow this guide if your HUD has this font installed.
> [!WARNING]  
> This is a general guide. HUDs vary in the way they do things. Worst case scenario, follow the guide on adding fonts to get a better idea, or ask in the [HUDS.TF Discord server](http://huds.tf).

In your `resource` folder in your HUD, there is a file named `clientscheme.res`. If it contains a lot of lines that start with `#base`, that means that the file we're looking for, `fonts_scheme.res` is somewhere else. Follow the path it says (usually inside of a folder called `scheme`) and open that file. If there is no `#base` line that points to a `fonts_scheme.res`, it means that the fonts are in the `clientscheme.res` file somewhere.

Fonts are structured like so:
![HUD Font File Code Example](https://i.imgur.com/kTTPtpB.png)
HUDs will usually structure their fonts where they have the name of the font (ex. `m0refont`) and then a number at the end to signify the size, along with optional flags for attributes (ex. `m0refont22Shadow`).\
See what font you are currently using for the label you'd like to change the font on (look at the `font` field), and use that as a reference point. If I'm using `m0refont12` and I want to go bigger, I might use `m0refont20`, provided that it exists in my `fonts_scheme.res`/`client_scheme.res`.\
> [!NOTE]  
> If you change to a bigger or smaller font, you may have to modify the label's values for `tall` or its positioning. Use `vgui_cache_res_files 0` and `hud_reloadscheme` to test this out while running TF2. If the font does not change, it may require a game restart in between font changes.

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> After you are satisfied with your customization, be sure to turn `vgui_cache_res_files 1` or you **will** have worse performance.

Commit message:

add boom snook's sound mod

[Client Mods]/README.md, after:

# Client Mods

These are a small collection of PASS Time specific modifications clients can do to their game that they can use in pugs/tournaments.

## Removing the PASS Time Power Meter from your HUD

![PASS Time Power Meter Example](https://i.imgur.com/LbQj0Ur.jpeg)

This hud element is really intrusive, but luckily for us, we can remove it.

If you have a custom HUD, go to your `custom` folder and open the HUD folder. Then go to `resource/ui/` and look for a file named `hudpasstimeballstatus.res`. If the file exists, [click here](#custom-hud--file-exists-removing-power-meter).

If you are using the default HUD or a custom HUD that does not have the file, simply download the [pt-hudmod](https://github.com/blakeplusplus/p4sstime/raw/main/%5BClient%20Mods%5D/pt-hudmod.7z) archive and put the folder inside into `YOUR_STEAM_LIBRARY\steamapps\common\Team Fortress 2\tf\custom\`.

## Removing or Modifying PASS Time HUD Labels

Sometimes the PASS Time HUD text for events can be intrusive or even useless (for example, +CRIT does not apply to 4v4 PASS Time). Thankfully, we can also modify these elements (although it's a bit more difficult than removing the power meter).
![PASS Time Event Hud Text Example](https://i.imgur.com/c9YAXXG.png)
If you have a custom HUD, go to your `custom` folder and open the HUD folder. Then go to `resource/ui/` and look for a file named `hudpasstimeballstatus.res`. If the file exists, [click here](#custom-hud--file-exists-changing-labels).

Otherwise, [click here](#custom-hud--file-not-found-or-default-hud-changing-labels).

## Custom PASS Time Reticles

Not a fan of the default PASS Time JACK reticle?
![PASS Time JACK Reticle Example](https://i.imgur.com/sWvgo0R.png)
As long as you're in a server with sv_pure set to 0, you can use these. Otherwise, it'll just go back to the default crosshair.

Simply place one of the folders inside the [passtime-crosshairs](https://github.com/blakeplusplus/p4sstime/raw/main/%5BClient%20Mods%5D/passtime-crosshairs.7z) archive into your `custom` folder.

The crosshairs are originally created by slamborghini and can be found in the Official 4v4 PASS Time Discord. I just wanted to archive them in another place.

## Bonus Mods

Here are some neat JACK & JACK trail replacement mods available on Gamebanana.

- [Basketball](https://gamebanana.com/mods/205828)
- [Too Many Balls](https://gamebanana.com/mods/491558) (includes Metroid balls, Mario balls, ANIMATED plasma ball, pool balls, rubber band ball)
- [PASS Time Ball Pack](https://gamebanana.com/mods/491646) (includes ULTRAKILL skulls, Halo 2 Oddball skull, and a festive jack)
- [Australium PASS Time JACK](https://gamebanana.com/mods/491682)
- [PASS Time Trail Pack](https://gamebanana.com/mods/11843)

Using [this mod preloader](https://gamebanana.com/wips/79779) allows them to work in servers that use `sv_pure 1`, like Valve servers or competitive games.

Mr Boom Snook from the 4v4 PASS Time Discord made a sound mod available [here](https://github.com/blakeplusplus/p4sstime/raw/main/%5BClient%20Mods%5D/pt-sound-mod.7z) that alters the ball_catch, ball_get, and target_lock sounds to be more snappy and noticeable. Give it a shot! If you don't like just one of the sounds, just remove those sounds from the mod.

If you want to practice on a local server, you may note loading the map locally results in an annoying "Waiting for Players" message that takes 20 seconds to go away before the actual game can start and the ball can spawn. While you could manually enter `mp_waitingforplayers_cancel 1` every time, you could instead download the [Disable "Waiting For Players" Message](https://gamebanana.com/mods/448996) mod, making the game instantly start!

And an [Invisible Hands](https://gamebanana.com/mods/467431) mod which quite a few PASS Time players enjoy, since the JACK uses an All Class animation resulting in clipping issues with viewmodels.

# END OF FILE
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### Custom HUD & File Exists (Removing Power Meter)

Go to your `custom` folder and open the HUD folder. Then go to `resource/ui/` and open up `hudpasstimeballstatus.res`. CTRL + F for `BallPowerCluster`.

Should look something like this:
```
"BallPowerCluster"
    {
        "ControlName"                                "EditablePanel"
        "fieldName"                                    "BallPowerCluster"
        "xpos"                                        "0"
        "ypos"                                        "0"
        "zpos"                                        "5"
        "wide"                                        "f0"
        "tall"                                        "f0"
        "visible"                                    "1"
        "enabled"                                    "1"

        ...
```
Change the `tall` value from `f0` to `0`.
Click save and now you can run `hud_reloadscheme` in console (if that doesn't work just restart your game). The meter should now be removed!

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### Custom HUD & File Exists (Changing Labels)

Open up the `hudpasstimeballstatus.res` file and CTRL + F for the text you want. As shown in the example before, the +CRIT message is `EventBonusLabel`, the event name (RED SCORE) is `EventTitleLabel`, and the person who caused the event is `EventDetailLabel`.

To remove, for any `Event____Label`:\
Change the `tall` value to `0`.

If you wish to change the positioning of any elements, [use this reference document](https://github.com/rbjaxter/budhud/wiki/Element-Positioning).\
If you wish to change the font to a different one, [follow this guide](#change-the-font-for-pass-time-hud-labels-changing-labels).\
If you wish to add a totally new font that isn't installed in your HUD, [follow this guide](https://github.com/rbjaxter/budhud/wiki/Adding---Replacing-Custom-Fonts#guide).

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### Custom HUD & File Not Found OR Default HUD (Changing Labels)

Download the [pt-hudmod](https://github.com/blakeplusplus/p4sstime/raw/main/%5BClient%20Mods%5D/pt-hudmod.7z) archive and put the folder inside into `YOUR_STEAM_LIBRARY\steamapps\common\Team Fortress 2\tf\custom\`. Open up the `hudpasstimeballstatus.res` file and CTRL + F for the text you want. As shown in the example before, the +CRIT message is `EventBonusLabel`, the event name (RED SCORE) is `EventTitleLabel`, and the person who caused the event is `EventDetailLabel`.

To remove, for any `Event____Label`:\
Change the `tall` value to `0`.

If you wish to change the positioning of any elements, [use this reference document](https://github.com/rbjaxter/budhud/wiki/Element-Positioning).\
If you wish to change the font to a different one, [follow this guide](#change-the-font-for-pass-time-hud-labels-changing-labels).\
If you wish to add a totally new font that isn't installed in your HUD, [follow this guide](https://github.com/rbjaxter/budhud/wiki/Adding---Replacing-Custom-Fonts#guide).

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### Change the Font for PASS Time HUD Labels (Changing Labels)

Only follow this guide if your HUD has this font installed.
> [!WARNING]  
> This is a general guide. HUDs vary in the way they do things. Worst case scenario, follow the guide on adding fonts to get a better idea, or ask in the [HUDS.TF Discord server](http://huds.tf).

In your `resource` folder in your HUD, there is a file named `clientscheme.res`. If it contains a lot of lines that start with `#base`, that means that the file we're looking for, `fonts_scheme.res` is somewhere else. Follow the path it says (usually inside of a folder called `scheme`) and open that file. If there is no `#base` line that points to a `fonts_scheme.res`, it means that the fonts are in the `clientscheme.res` file somewhere.

Fonts are structured like so:
![HUD Font File Code Example](https://i.imgur.com/kTTPtpB.png)
HUDs will usually structure their fonts where they have the name of the font (ex. `m0refont`) and then a number at the end to signify the size, along with optional flags for attributes (ex. `m0refont22Shadow`).\
See what font you are currently using for the label you'd like to change the font on (look at the `font` field), and use that as a reference point. If I'm using `m0refont12` and I want to go bigger, I might use `m0refont20`, provided that it exists in my `fonts_scheme.res`/`client_scheme.res`.\
> [!NOTE]  
> If you change to a bigger or smaller font, you may have to modify the label's values for `tall` or its positioning. Use `vgui_cache_res_files 0` and `hud_reloadscheme` to test this out while running TF2. If the font does not change, it may require a game restart in between font changes.

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> After you are satisfied with your customization, be sure to turn `vgui_cache_res_files 1` or you **will** have worse performance.
